US President George Bush got an
unexpected surprise during his
unannounced visit to baghdad an iraqi
journalist through his shoes at bush
shouting here is your goodbye kiss dog
the shoes missed and the man was
wrestled to the floor and hustled away
yes that took place during a press
conference with Iraqi Prime Minister
Nouri al-maliki throwing shoes is a deep
insult and traditional sign of
disrespect and contempt in Arab culture
after the first Gulf War Saddam Hussein
had a mosaic of President George HW Bush
placed on the ground outside I Rox Al
Rashid hotel forcing patrons to step on
his face to get inside in 2003 Iraqis
celebrating the fall of Saddam Hussein
smacked his toppled statue with shoes
and sandals who shrugged off sundays
incident I didn't feel the least bit
threatened by it these journalists here
were very apologetic they were you know
they were said dissident this doesn't
represent the Iraqi people but that's
that's what happens in free societies a
few moments later al-maliki and Bush
signed the recently approved Status of
Forces Agreement paving the way for US
combat forces to leave iraq by the end
of 2001 well no I'd be here you have
stood by a rack in the Iraqi people for
a long time starting with getting rid of
the dictatorship to helping the Iraqis
by terrorism but with the conclusion of
these agreements and the courage of the
Iraqi people and the Iraqi troops and
American troops and civilian person
personnel it is decisively on his way to
being one but over 140,000 US troops
remain in Iraq more than five years
after the invasion 4,200 US troops and
tens perhaps hundreds of thousands of
Iraqis have been killed and a new report
by the American oversee
of the post-war reconstruction measures
labels the rebuilding effort a costly
and incompetent failure at the beginning
of the war in Iraq before bush
prematurely declared mission
accomplished administration officials
confidently predicted American forces
would be greeted with flowers and candy
instead in a bitter footnote to his
deeply unpopular presidency Bush leaves
Iraq dodging insults and shoes
properties al-jazeera